[Music]
welcome everyone to this week's IPL d
meeting is hi welcome this video sorry
[Laughter]
so yeah anyway so zoom is starting the
YouTube channel to make the stream work
and then it also played the video
alright so I come again it's generally
the 21st 2019 okay so if you're
attending please put your name on the
attendees list in the crib pad which is
the same every week but I will put in
that anyway
I we need a note taker any volunteers
so I can take them but then someone else
has to take over the meeting because
they're taking both is like those doll
things okay I can drive the the meeting
agenda I think that it's actually pretty
simple
yeah okay yeah I mean the main thing
that we need to figure out in in this
one and started B rail like any other
sort of um actually so before the end of
the meeting we will do a quick update
actually just from everybody but I just
want to get this out in front because we
have new okay ours that I want to try to
land today and it basically sort of
shifts around a bunch of the priorities
for the quarter so I want to just make
sure that we have alignment on that
before we move forward so the main thing
is that we're adding four
okay ours that are basically identical
for go and Jas to implement a IP LD
selector grammar parser and to implement
a dag traverser for get for any
given selector ast essentially though
the parsed version of those selectors so
if you basically you can give it sort of
a block store and say hey go get me all
the blocks that match this particular
selector and it will go and do that
essentially and and obviously the
grammar parser is pretty
self-explanatory but yeah we basically
need these so that we can replicate
block chain data in ipfs and that's a
very important kind of quarterly goal
that we need to knock out so yeah any
particular comments on that okay cool
there's been some discussion in the PR
but it sounds like it's about Radle and
that was the main thing that I was
worried about next actually all it Eric
go next because I by the end of the
meeting I want to figure out how we're
kind of staging the work in terms of
like what fuller is doing and what Eric
is doing cuz it sounds like it's been
doing some work on the on a schema
engine it sounds somewhat portable to
the grammar parser and folk has actually
been working on the traverser on the Jas
side so it sounds like in the go and JSI
we're actually implementing the two
different parts which could complement
each other really well so Eric you want
to go sweet yeah I don't know how much
the code will be portable but at least
like my brain state so I've been doing a
lot of research on the schema stuff and
[Music]
long story short there is a draft now so
if people want to check that out and
make comments this is a draft that
covers all of the basic stuff that we've
described in past conversations so there
are types based on the IP LD data model
stuff which you know like that list
that's been pretty well ratified of the
basic primitives and then it just has
product kinds and some kinds if you will
so unions and structs in other words and
mountain arrays and I have implemented
this
twice and it is self describing in both
formats there's now a PR that has an
example of this in a JSON syntax and one
in a DSL which is why I've been thinking
about parsers lately the parser for the
DSL form is not yet written and tested
and complete but a feedback on the DSL
before I do that would actually be good
otherwise it's just way more work so
there's a PR link in the in the pad
that's shared and if people want to
check that out and make comments like
it's big called if this schema should
completely self described so there is a
kind that is called like struct and
there is a type in the schema called
type struct which describes what a
struct can have so it reads a little
funny you'll see some JSON elements
where it's like the type of the fields
called type and like this is what self
description is so yeah go check that out
there's a bunch of work bringing that
close to being implemented and usable in
the go side already there's a type stop
node implementation which is still in go
terms the same interface as the other
notes it's just going to apply more
rules so if you have a type violation
than it will depending on exactly how
you load up the library either do it in
advance when you're putting data in or
do it at runtime when you try to access
it both paths should be supported and in
the far future I want to have code
generation for this but I won't talk
about that today it's a bit much yeah
so that is a bunch of stuff that I don't
know what anyone else expected but I
personally thought this was gonna take
forever and now it's like suddenly
looking a lot closer so that's just
information that I wanted to present to
everyone in case it changes your plans
I'm going to start personally dogfooding
the schema DSL just to like write
documentation for myself for things
going forward and new protocols because
if this is close to the mark then it
should be helpful and if it's not I want
to find out by trying it so I encourage
other people to do that too and tell me
what comes up and yeah go team
you want to do a quick update to
yes so my update is really only I'm
still working on the IP JavaScript IP at
the API is for J's ipfs but I'm closed
there's only 12 tests that are failing
on J's ipfs and then I want to get this
merge but this will be like also like to
take a wire to basically get everything
merged and all the stuff but and then
but this is really only the top will
never API and then there's the IP RT
formats which I also want to work on but
in parallel obviously on the sill take
through stuff and that just came up last
week and basically the update bear on
these and take the stuff is that I
already played with selectors for the
past year and I have like some partial
implementations of some things and just
yeah dig through them and clean them up
and yeah we'll see how this goes yeah
that's my update but I have already a
thing I want to ask Eric because so we
will do these selectors thing for go and
just probably and will you be okay with
like PCAs you work on the schema stuff
currently that I start on this Travis
crypt side with the ast pausing kind of
things and then yeah we work together on
basically making sure that it works on
both sides but as I've already spent
some time on this just make sense too I
think if I get started with it and then
we yeah I get the feedback from you on
thus the ast world also for Cowan which
should obviously because it's an AST but
i but actually maybe seriously if you
want to try drafting stuff in the schema
DSL or like I'll look at your notes and
try to rewrite it again in the DSL and
then we can use that as sort of a sanity
check that I'm reading you thoroughly
enough we're on the same page so busy
schema for the ast right now what are
you yeah yeah yeah I mean the DAC is
probably pretty simple I mean yeah but
yeah yeah good rook yeah I'll try it out
cool yeah I discovered a lot of bugs in
my own schema by writing the schema of
the schema and so
um so one thing that would be super
helpful I think if we can try to have it
by the end of the quarter is um so at
the bottom of the selector specs that
one wrote it's a bunch of sort of
implementation notes for go
if those could at some point get
replaced with the actual ast definition
that's not dislike language control that
would be really helpful and then if you
want to then link to like a live version
of the schema that you wrote if you end
up doing that and that was probably
helpful too um but yeah okay awesome
awesome okay sweet
that's great so being that we have so
many extra guests here today why don't I
just open it up for some kind of like an
office hours like any questions from
de'vide or Alan or Stephen about stuff
I'm here well I didn't have the chance
to participate in recent discussions
while browsing so I'm just trying to
pitch in and get an update the the thing
that I was like well these are more raw
thoughts that actually any proposal to
make a plan um but I've I'm starting to
think that it would be interesting to
consider making IP LD as something that
can be used stand alone without ipfs and
by that I mean I'd be making ideally
usable on top of my peer to peer
directly so that then I PLD can govern
the API of the API that ipfs focus
really hard on governing and and
stabilizing the api's on files in the
pewter peer can I focus on the
networking part again like this is like
very raw thoughts and I haven't as a
chance to write all this down but like
it seems as a good path moving forward
to create what we can then call like
stable api's we've without like maybe
like from the user perspective like if
an IP fast user comes I profess C's are
the files API is and I know for sure
about this concept guys will not break a
nor the OE backwards compatible etc but
like everything else like the the
internals are not either accessible or
claimed to be stable while the AP group
cannot focus really hard on the graph
API and govern that without without
having to go back and forth to an IP
pass when first preliminary thoughts
like what what is this sound to people
yeah I mean I think that we've started
to move in that direction at the at the
storage level right so like like like
when we're thinking about okay we needed
traverse a dag and pull stuff out we're
thinking less in terms of the DFS API
and more in terms of like
what is just a generic block store look
like or like maybe just an asynchronous
get method like give me a system like
here's a cid give me a block right and
then we can map that on top of whatever
storage contract we're good
a little bit trickier is the the network
layer API stuff only because there's so
much set up in configuration inside of
ipfs today in how it sets up that
network and who is already talking to
and all of that that it's it's hard for
us to think about okay let's look like
create this new replication API but not
take as part of that context in that
development like everything that I've
give us is already doing it's just a
little bit more difficult I would
definitely like to get there but I see
it as like a slightly longer term thing
right then then the storage layer stuff
if that makes it got it - okay
that is okay it wasn't as obvious to me
that there was a lot of conversations on
the storage layer at the moment okay so
so I guess like it's basically just like
people fighting with the interface and
restore stuff
specifically on the JavaScript side
though and and part of this is like I
think one of the reasons why these
conversations get lost is because it was
also included in some of the very early
talks about moving to async await api's
and generators and like we were talking
about like oh well we need we want to do
an update of our API
anyway let's make it less specific and
all of that so yeah I can see why things
got very confused there Eric would have
to speak to it so I peeled I peeled D in
goal and also has this new API called
IPL D prime however I don't know how
tied it is to the particular IP FF store
them circular like I haven't looked at
that but err can answer them and yeah I
was nodding intensely to the separation
of concerns description like I've
actually been very carefully resisting
importing any packages and as much as
possible to go IPO D prime because my
hope is that it's going to be this like
intensely reusable thing and so I want
us dependency surface to be absolutely
minimal it should be something that like
anyone can put into anything with a
slightest chance at the time of
dependency hopefully and so it Yanks in
the Sydney libraries and and nothing
else the rest of its going to like be
decorated on top rather than I'm
actually really hoping like I think in a
perfect world it would be also if we
could get the IPL the tooling and
schemas and stuff - in addition to
serving ipfs needs really well and
Merkel web in general it should also
scale back and if you just kind of
ignore links it should work
fantastically for the types of single
documents it should like replace swagger
for API Docs correctly because it has
everything except the HTTP verb which
yeah yeah I might be a bit down road but
like that's kind of where I'm mentally
aiming like mmm I have a bunch of other
projects for example where I'm like
doing some message passing over standard
and standard out between it process tree
and like I want some type system because
the parents in JavaScript human childs
and go don't ask me how that happened
did though and like I basically want I
peel D for that too it would be so
useful yeah I was writing like a
distributed Map Reduce for some metrics
data that we're working on and I
basically needed a cache key but I
needed like metadata associated with
that cache key and I ended up just using
Dex Seymour and storing it in s3 because
like that's actually the easiest way to
do that it turns out so yeah there's
like a lot of uses for all these API is
the more that we sort of like move them
in to just think to being really atomic
and really kind of small also similarly
in the okrs for this quarter actually
it's a little priority but it isn't that
were case for this corner is to move
IPSS block the JavaScript API into the
IP LD projects because we actually need
that API to do like all of our sort of
JavaScript level block interface stuff
and if not it nothing about it is
actually IP FF specific I don't know
this is exactly the time replace but
from the go side so I haven't figured
out exactly how to write this but I
suspect part of the solution I might try
for go is since we have structural
typing you can do this thing and go
where you define the interface of one
place to find it another place if it's
the same methods they're basically equal
you can just toss them back and forth so
I'm suspecting there might be a good
solution to the dependency ordering
problem if I just declare a block
interface somewhere in the IP LD project
and then we declare one that's
coincidentally identical in the IPS ESCO
code base and
has to import the other in order to
satisfy its type constraints about me
say I confess we'll import it to compile
a full program but like large amounts of
the interface could actually work
without the library technically yeah I
mean that's pretty similar to what we've
been in the past actually on the
JavaScript side I think that I think
that I would actually like to move
towards is it is away from bigger
interfaces and to smaller so for
instance we have a bunch of if you guys
where you you handed an entire block
service service API but many of these
like a deck traverser only needs to get
blocks by cid and if that's the case
then it should just take a single async
method yeah called yet they get blocks
by cid and then you can you know it's
one line of code to to map a block
service object on to that right but yeah
yeah I see what you're saying
okay cool before yeah we've only got
five minutes so Ellen and Stephen and he
he's coming with us okay cool cool okay
one last question
Davida I wanted to in the ipfs project
WT g talk about some IP LD
prioritization stuff what's the best way
to add agenda items to the project
working group meeting so the notes talk
he's a Google Doc that is open like I
typically am the one creating the agenda
so typically I'm the one for siding like
just copy placing the template like they
had in debate but like anyone should
feel comfortable like if it's not there
already you should just add it let me
link it to you and so you like the the
calendar event is on Google Calendar it
is also linked from the project working
group repo so like it's kind of like
where like it just follows a regular
patterns and so yeah you yeah I see you
are here and so the yeah so
the template is already here maybe you
just copied it so yeah just have your
name
and the title of the the thing do you
want again that's awesome
awesome I edited also um it said that
the meeting was today but it's not today
tomorrow so I updated that date yeah
okay great I think anything else
before we close it out the the only
things that already be my work on the
new so to answer that question earlier
that my rug on the IPL dapi certainly is
to make them less dependent on ipfs and
just being like yeah a toy for IPS to
really have like proper API so there's
also part of the API work to make it the
usable as a standalone thing yeah that's
all awesome
okay great meeting everybody thank you
I'm gonna go back on us holiday vacation
for MLK Day
[Laughter]